Let's start looking at the second topic,
namely, the scientific methods used in management research, in business environment research.
The reliability of the data you receive,
the practical significance of these results,
and so on.
However, it should be noted that the choice and justification of the methodology
does not yet give a guarantee that you will get the right answer to the question,
and most importantly, the guarantee that the problem, the solution to the problem, will be accepted correctly.
This largely depends on the people who make the decisions.
Nevertheless, the choice of research methods is the most important stage of planning the entire research.
There are several ways to classify research methods,
but generally speaking, there are two classification signs,
in terms of application and in terms of the process of collecting information.
In terms of application, general and special research methods stand out,
and in terms of the process of collecting information, as we have already said,
quantitative and qualitative.
We also used the term data structure.
It should be noted that when conducting research in a business environment,
where the role of the human factor is very important,
all the increasing significance is given by qualitative research methods.
But let's look at everything in order.
Let's start with special research methods,
because within the framework of this course we do not have the opportunity to consider,
not even within the framework of the course, but it is quite difficult to consider special methods of research in all their variety.
Because these methods are developed and improved in completely specific situations,
areas of knowledge, in social, technical sciences, and so on.
To explain what special methods are,
you can give a number of examples, additional to those that you have indicated in the workbook.
If we take, for example, the industry,
then there are used special methods, such as determining the norm of the investment of raw materials in a particular product,
determining the amount of vitamin C in a product, and so on.
These methods are called special because they are used in a strictly specific area.
If we talk about general methods of research, then they are divided into three groups.
These are, first of all, empirical methods, that is, experimental research,
methods that can be used both empirically and theoretically,
and purely theoretical methods.
We will not pay much attention to the last aspect,
because these methods are used in business, but not so often.
If we talk about methods of empirical observation,
then we need to focus on three of them.
These are observation, comparison, and measurement, including experiments.
Let's start with observation.
I will not dwell on these methods in great detail,
let's say, on observation,
because you will hear about observation in addition to other courses,
for example, organizational behavior.
Nevertheless, the main principles that are characteristic not only for conducting research in the field of organizational behavior,
but also general principles, we must consider.
So, what is observation?
The definition is written on the slide.
It is a system of fixing and registering the properties of the connection of the studied object
in natural conditions or in artificial circumstances, that is, within the framework of the experiment.
In fact, we are all observers in one way or another,
and observing the processes, phenomena, we make certain conclusions and make decisions.
Therefore, observation is one of the most common methods of research in business.
There are two types of observation.
These are unstructured observations, which are also called included observations,
and structured observations.
In the first case, the researcher is inside the situation,
he is studying this situation, and his task may be to clarify the problem that was originally formulated
or to form a working hypothesis.
Structured observation is usually carried out to describe the repeatability,
the typicalness of the occurrence of one or another phenomenon, behavior, and so on.
What is included observation?
Quoting from the textbook, we read,
The researcher strives to take part in the life of the participants in the study and their activities,
that is, he is inside the team, inside the situation.
He strives to become a member of this group, this organization or this community.
What is it for?
In order to understand their thoughts, feelings, reactions to certain events,
their inner motives, which they may not tell, for example, during an interview.
And all this is passed through the observer through himself,
through the prism of his own experiences, perceptions, emotions, and so on.
Of course, the question arises, how unpredictable is such a method of study?
But this is a separate question, and we will definitely talk about it.
Being an observer, an included observer, the researcher can perform different roles.
As shown on the slide.
He can be a pure participant, a pure observer,
he can be a participating observer, that is, he is a participant, but also an observer,
and can play the role of an observing participant.
This method assumes, as a rule, the obtaining of high-quality data.
That is, what will the observer describe, record?
What he sees.
And make notes, how people react to some change in the organization,
to the comments of, say, the leader, how the relations between them are formed, and so on.
What is the difference between these four roles?
In the first two cases, we say that people do not know that they are being observed.
That is, there is a so-called hidden observation.
Is it good or bad?
Which side to look at?
If we talk about the unpredictability, the unbiasedness of the data,
then for the purpose of the experiment, for the purpose of observation, for the purpose of the result,
it is better if people do not know that they are being observed.
Because nature is such that if we are being observed, we behave differently.
In this case, the researcher can get distorted data and come to an incorrect result.
But, there is a big but.
And this but is on the ethical side of the matter.
We will talk about ethics today, but nevertheless it is important to say now
that we are violating some human rights.
And later on, it can make us feel some kind of complaint.
But for the researcher, this is very important.
In fact, he gets some kind of intelligence data, not just priceless for subsequent analysis.
How can a hidden observation be carried out?
In the first case, a person simply introduces what we call a hidden Cossack.
No one can guess that he is not one of us.
He lives the same life, performs the same tasks as his colleagues, and so on.
There is a danger here.
In that the observer can start to prejudge certain phenomena.
That is, he penetrates this atmosphere, he enters the position of his people around him.
And there is a great danger that he will prejudge something that is happening.
Avoiding this allows for the so-called hidden observation
using the technical means of hidden observation.
When a camera is watching people.
Or you probably saw it in the movies, when an experiment is being carried out.
Behind a transparent glass, only on one side, there are investigators,
and, let's say, a powerful stake of suspects is being played.
There are, of course, some nuances here.
In this case, such an observation is generally cleared.
At least, the observer becomes completely independent.
The ethical side remains the same, people are being watched.
But this situation can be managed in modern conditions.
And most often in modern organizations, when a contract is signed for work,
one of the points is that a person is made aware in advance
that a hidden observation can be carried out behind him.
For an investigator, such a contract is just a gift.
The next two situations suggest that people know
that there is a person in their team who is watching them.
Thus, we solve the ethical side of the issue.
But there is still such a drawback as the influence of the investigator on the participants of this study
and the opposite, the influence of the participants on the investigator.
These problems can be avoided or reduced to a minimum
if a person has been watching people for a long enough time.
A person gets tired of thinking about what is being watched.
And he begins to perceive the investigator as his own.
And then, in general, it is possible to minimize the negative consequences.
The methods of included observation have their advantages and disadvantages.
As, however, any method has.
There is not a single method that we could call ideal.
There is no ideal methodology.
That is why we are studying a number of methods so that you can choose the best one
and combine them optimally to get the right result.
The advantages and disadvantages of the methods are described in great detail in your workbook.
Probably, we should only mention the most significant of them.
The main advantage of this method is that it works very well
when you need to understand what is happening in a particular situation from the inside.
To understand the processes that are taking place inside the team.
And even sometimes not only inside the team, but inside the thinking processes.
This is illustrated very well in the example of the Org.
To understand the true feelings, thoughts and experiences of people.
That is, the hidden layer can be seen only by the method of included observation.
It is also important that almost all the collected data is useful in this study.
Because by putting them into separate categories, you can get additional information
or find some additional idea that will either provoke further research in a good sense of the word
in order to reduce some negative consequences in the team.
There are also disadvantages.
The first one is that it is a very long process.
Especially when we talk about the last two.
When people know that they are being observed.
Another disadvantage is that conflict situations often arise within the framework of this method of study.
People suddenly accidentally find out that they are being observed.
A group of researchers who conduct the observation does not agree with the conflict between them.
What I have already mentioned, by conducting the study of this method,
it is very possible to distort the data due to the bias of the observer.
Especially if it is the first two categories.
The last thing to note is that data registration is a rather problematic occupation.
Because a person, especially if we talk about the first two cases,
cannot sit and record what he sees.
That is, he must record the data registration after some time.
This can also lead to some distortions.
Something is lost in memory, something has already been seen by someone else through the prism of time.
Of course, there are methods that allow this to be avoided.
One of them is the recommendation to register data as soon as possible.
People took a break, quickly recorded something.
At the end of the working day, in no case can it be postponed.
Nevertheless, such a problem exists.
In order to reduce the disadvantages, there are approaches to their minimization.
Despite the cost of this method, the first thing to ask for is to include two or three researchers in the observation.
The first is to duplicate the live researcher with a video camera.
Then, to make a kind of average and reduce the prism of perception of each individual person.
But you can go the other way, as you have indicated in the workbook.
Having seen some observation at one workplace, you can ask the manager of this enterprise
whether this phenomenon is typical only for this workplace, only for employees of this department.
Or, in principle, this phenomenon is observed in almost the entire company.
In this case, the method of observation is supplemented by the method of interview.
And once again, we return to the thesis that one method may not be good enough,
but its disadvantages or limitations, to put it more correctly, can be fulfilled by another method.
This is why qualitative research is difficult, although quantitative research is also not free from such issues.
Quantitative data obtained by one method may not always be true in the last instance.
The last thesis is observation in Japanese management.
In Japan, there is a tradition that sounds like a minaret in Russian.
When the work skills are passed on by observation and copying.
You can say it briefly, look at me and do as I do.
This tradition is generally acceptable and widespread in Europe.
This is what we call training at work.
On-job training in English.
But if we talk about research, then observation in Japanese management is of great importance.
There is not much material written on this topic, but I think if someone is interested in this topic, you can find it.
Structured observation differs from the included one in that its main goal is to obtain quantitative data.
Researchers are interested in how often a particular phenomenon, event, or human action is repeated.
Structured observation is not aimed at investigating the causes of this phenomenon, but at determining the periodicity of its occurrence.
Since we are focusing on qualitative data, we will not go into details of structured observation.
I will just say that structured observation is usually done using special techniques for recording.
Either control sheets, or diaries, and so on.
The next method is an empirical method.
Let me remind you that we are still looking at methods of empirical research.
An experiment is an experimental study of the impact of a particular factor or group of factors on a variable researcher.
That is, a certain distinguishing feature, characteristic of an object that can be changed, tracked, and measured.
Not always measured, but still.
The types of experiments.
To make it short, let me emphasize that there are two types of experiments.
A laboratory experiment, or so-called true experiment, and a field experiment that is conducted in natural conditions.
What is a good laboratory experiment?
In essence, an artificial environment is created, a so-called model experiment is conducted,
when the impact of external or some other factors on the variable researcher is reduced to a minimum.
To give you an example of a true experiment, it is most often used in technical sciences.
The crash test is probably well known to everyone.
In essence, it is an experiment.
The designers have created a car, and it is necessary to assess the degree of its safety.
It is accelerated and hit against the wall.
And they look at the dynamics of the car's destruction, how badly these people will suffer.
But destroying a whole car is quite an expensive pleasure.
Therefore, in laboratory conditions, a model can be made.
In fact, there is only one chair, the structures that surround the person,
and a doll with sensors and its cover is placed in it.
And to see what breaks at the doll's neck or leg.
A field experiment is conducted in natural conditions, when the researcher does not change anything in the surrounding environment.
This experiment is quite complex, because the system is very multifaceted, but also very informative and effective.
What should be noted?
An experiment can be carried out, as it is good for obtaining quantitative data, for example,
the time to develop equipment for failure.
What is it?
They have developed a new telephone device, they have given it to a person to use,
and he must hand it over when it breaks.
If they gave it to 100 people, then you can already draw some statistical conclusions,
that on average it will serve 2 years, and then it is not needed.
But the experiment is also good because it allows you to obtain qualitative characteristics.
For example, if you study people's reaction to changes.
It is difficult to record, but the experiment is very useful.
There are several schemes for conducting experiments.
I will not go through all these schemes, they are presented in detail in the workbook.
What should be noted?
We are operating in two categories.
This is an experimental group and a control group.
Why?
Why should there be an experimental group and a control group?
An experimental group is the one that is affected by something,
to see what response this effect will have.
In any case, for an experimental group,
the assessment of the quality or quantitative state of the experimental group is carried out before the start of the study and after.
Sometimes immediately after and significantly after.
What is the need of a control group?
I think that for you it is not a discovery that people, participating in experiments, change their behavior.
A fact known from medicine.
If a person is given a candy and told that this is a pill that will reduce heart pain,
it is called placebo,
then indeed their heart will hurt less.
Moreover, the more a person is affected by the influence of other people,
psychologically dependent,
the higher the effect will be.
To level this influence,
the person's awareness that he is participating in an experiment,
a control group is required.
In a control group, measurements or data collection can be carried out before the start of the experiment
and after the experiment where we carry out the effect.
Measurements and data collection can be carried out only after the experiment is over.
Experiments can be carried out in social groups and in the business environment.
Although this can be coupled with certain difficulties,
because people do not always want to participate in experiments
and very often resist this.
The next method of empirical research is comparison.
That is, you need to establish with this method the common thing that is inherent in two or several objects.
I think that everyone knows this saying.
Everything is known in comparison.
But if we talk about the reliability of this method,
then it is necessary to take into account the two main requirements that you have here.
The first is that only such phenomena should be compared
between which there is a certain objective community.
There is no point in comparing, say, an elephant and a fly.
Although, what to choose for a unit of comparison?
And the second is that for the identification of objects,
the comparison should be carried out according to the most important objective significant signs.
And not in general.
It is also important to note that both quantitative and qualitative characteristics can be compared.
This is absolutely fair.
That is, we can compare, say, the flow of personnel at a Moscow enterprise
and the flow of personnel in a branch in the region and look for reasons.
But we can also compare the qualitative characteristics.
This also has the right to exist.
What else should be added here?
As an addition to the method of comparison, there is also a method of contrast.
When in objects the corresponding characteristics are assessed, and their opposites.
This is also a fair method for finding solutions.
Measurement.
We will touch on the measurement literally through,
because it is the main prerogative of quantitative methods of determination.
That is, there is a procedure for determining the numerical value of a certain value.
And this numerical value is determined by comparing the units of measurement and the object of study.
This procedure is very important because it allows you to get very accurate quantitative data about the surrounding reality.
The data obtained can be statistically processed,
and the dependence can be identified, and so on.
But this will be told in detail in the lecture on quantitative methods of study.
And here we move on to the next group of general methods of study.
We will list the methods that can be used both empirically and theoretically.
There are quite a few of them.
Abstraction, analysis-synthesis, induction-deduction, and so on.
The first of the listed is abstraction.
What is abstraction?
I think that all of you have heard this term.
But for our purposes, we must consider two aspects.
There is the concept of the process of abstraction and the result of abstraction.
What is abstraction?
What does it mean to abstract?
You have probably heard this term.
To abstract from circumstances.
That is, to highlight the essential, important, central thing that should be assessed.
That is, to simplify the complex.
But what you leave in your abstraction should be absolutely unharmful to the object you tried to abstract.
What is it for?
To simplify the process of assessment and study of the object itself.
What can you abstract from in the business environment?
If you study, let's say, the motivation of employees,
you are not interested in motivation at all,
and the motivation is only material,
then you can abstract from the non-material.
If you continue, you can move away the non-essential, which is not important for your analysis,
and focus only on the key points.
Unfortunately, this is not a method used so often.
It is complex and sometimes very subjective.
The next method is analysis and synthesis.
This method is practically the main, triangular one in any study.
What is analysis?
Analysis is the decomposition of the object into components, as shown in the following slide.
But to decompose a whole into components,
you need to highlight certain features of individual elements of a whole.
By decomposing into components, each of them must be analyzed separately,
significant interconnections must be highlighted,
and then synthesis must be carried out.
It turns out that synthesis is a process of reverse analysis.
But pay attention to the diagram.
In a synthesized object, we already have fewer elements,
and we have otherwise organized their structure, their interconnections.
This allows us to build our conclusions more correctly, to come to certain conclusions.
Induction and deduction.
We have talked about this a lot.
What should be noted here?
It is very important that the induction and deduction lead to the same results.
If the inductively conducted study contradicts the theory,
or if the data you have collected does not confirm the theory,
then there are two possible outcomes of the situation.
Either you conducted the study incorrectly, or you made a discovery.
Historical and logical methods.
Historically, they are also called the archival method.
That is, it is the study of the history of events in all their complexity,
of course, with the exception of those elements that interest the researcher.
The logical method differs from the historical one in that it also studies history,
but it studies the logic of the occurrence of certain events, the course of certain events.
This is also a kind of abstraction, that is, the logic of the history of events
is cleared of randomness, turns, zigzags that may coincide with the study of the event.
Modeling is a very important method of study.
What is a model?
You can say that it is an analogue of a real object, or a phenomenon, or a process.
But you need to be very careful.
A model and an analogue are completely different concepts.
There can be a lot of analogues,
but this does not mean that analogues repeat the main significant aspects of the object being studied.
But a model repeats the main significant aspects of the object being studied.
In principle, there are physical models, which we most often call models,
and there are abstract models.
These can be sign systems, language models, virtual models, or mathematical models.
Modeling is very widespread in research.
Your workbook gives an example of how website creators work.
When creating a website, a model is first of all created.
It is not filled with all kinds of pictograms, links, and so on.
The model has only the basic working tools.
This allows website developers to check, for example, how interfaces work,
how convenient it is for users to work with this website, and so on.
When this model website is finished, it can be filled with other elements,
which may be less meaningful.
In principle, a model can be called what I told you about crash tests.
But in business, a certain scheme is often understood as a model.
The next slide shows a model of strategic management.
One of the possible ones, there are quite a few of them.
Please note that the model shows the key aspects of strategic management.
The basis of the basis is a business idea,
around which target installations are formed,
and then the development of all aspects of strategic management.
The model of synthesis analysis was previously presented on the previous slide.
There are so-called portfolio models in strategic management.
What are the advantages of models?
They are good because they allow you to study elements very well.
They structure the course of thought and clearly and visually show you the structure of the object or subject of research.
In principle, the creation of a model can be the goal of research.
You can create a model of relationships with the management of your organization by conducting research.
For example, I think that you will read about idealization, formalization and axiomatic method in your workbook.
These methods are not used so often in the business environment.
And we are moving on.
Finally, we will discuss the topic of qualitative methods of research in business.
We have already considered some of these methods, but we need to deepen and expand this information.
First of all, it should be noted that qualitative and quantitative methods are by no means competitors.
The difference between them is significant.
Quantitative methods allow us to give a numerical assessment of events,
and qualitative methods allow us to give an assessment of events,
give a characteristic of what is happening, and so on.
In one research, both qualitative and quantitative methods of analysis can be used.
What precedes what?
In fact, it depends on how you have built your research.
Quantitative data can be collected,
and in order to fully analyze and understand them, additional qualitative studies can be conducted for explanation.
But it is quite possible that when qualitative studies are collected,
a characteristic of the situation, object, phenomenon, and so on is given,
which requires additional quantitative information.
As we have already said, maybe we need to look at how often this phenomenon appears in a particular group, and so on.
Quantitative and qualitative methods are complementary.
Nevertheless, qualitative methods are very common in business and differ in some characteristics.
First of all, qualitative methods of research imply the collection of information in a free form,
that is, there is no specific structure.
It is important that they rely on understanding and explanation of empirical data collected by a researcher.
They serve as a source for forming hypotheses and some productive ideas.
At the same time, qualitative studies can be used to collect information about bias, motivations, values, and so on.
For example, when conducting marketing research,
motives that incline people to buy this, not another product, to approach this brand, not another one, can be studied.
Because they prefer one type of service, let's say, in a restaurant, and not another.
What else is very important?
Qualitative data allows us to understand the essence of the problem.
Since we have talked about the study, explanatory type of research,
then by studying the variety of elements and situations,
we can thus create a base for subsequent quantitative research and quantitative assessment.
As I have already said, qualitative research can be studied in quantitative ways,
in this case, by performing the function of explaining the obtained quantitative data.
The methods of qualitative research include interviews, focus groups, observations, and experiments.
We have already talked about observations and experiments when we talked about general methods of research.
Therefore, now we will focus on the interview and the variety of interviews, which is called focus groups.
What is an interview?
In fact, it is a purposeful discussion or conversation between two or more people,
which is aimed at obtaining certain types of information from these people.
There are three types of interviews.
These are structured interviews, partially structured, and unstructured interviews,
which are also called deep interviews.
Let's look at each of these types of interviews separately.
A structured interview is a standardized procedure,
which is most often carried out by using surveys.
What is a survey?
It is a form with a certain number of questions.
These questions are asked to all participants who are subject to this method of analysis.
The example of a structured interview is shown in the application for the workbook.
It is a fairly long document to talk about it here,
but pay attention to how people who have passed a structured interview respond.
One opinion was expressed that a structured interview is similar to a survey.
You are asked a question, you are listened to, and you are asked the next question,
which is not related to the previous one and your answer to the previous question.
Why is this done?
The thing is that the quality methods of research are mostly developed by psychologists.
And the way a person responds to a question, for example, can be asked,
tell me, please, a funny story from your life.
A person tells a story, and the listener pays attention to his emotionality,
to his ability to creatively process some information, to non-verbal signs,
if we are talking about a personal structured interview, not a survey.
A structured interview is most often used to collect quantitative data.
Why?
Because in addition to this questionnaire, there are developed methods of pain evaluation of the respondent's answer.
The interviewer asks a question, and the questioner says,
the questioner does not understand the meaning of the question,
but the researcher has a methodology of evaluation of the respondent's emotionality,
the person's stress resistance, the level of truthfulness or not.
And so you can sum up the number of points, like in a psychological test.
This method works very well, it allows to make a very large coverage of the interview,
especially if it is not a personal survey, but is used mainly to get quantitative information.
Unlike structured interviews, a partially structured interview should have a list of topics,
not questions, like in a structured interview, but topics for discussion.
Topics and questions.
The main difference from a structured interview is that in the process of an interview,
topics and questions can change.
That is, the interviewer can, by the course of the interview,
based on the respondent's answer, change the course of the interview.
Let's say the respondent shows some impatience or irritation from the questions.
The researcher can change the tone, the order of the questions,
or exclude some topics of a personal nature that the respondent is affected by from this interview.
And, accordingly, change the direction of the conversation.
Partially structured and unstructured interviews are intended for quality research.
That is, the researcher needs to understand the feeling, the experience, the motivation, and so on.
The reaction to certain events, in order to answer the research question later.
An unstructured interview or a deep interview is always informal.
The researcher usually does not have a list of questions prepared in advance,
but he must clearly imagine what problems he wants to study.
And he already formulates the questions as the respondent answers them.
It is quite possible that in the course of an unstructured interview, new problems will be revealed,
which will be subject to further study or research.
An unstructured interview is very often conducted with people who are in a high position in society or in business,
and do not want everyone to know what they are talking about in this interview.
That is, it is a personal conversation between the researcher and the respondent.
But a deep interview is a very powerful research tool,
which allows to reveal what is not available to almost no other method.
Let's look at the typology of quality research, which is presented on the diagram.
A quality interview can be individual, or it can be conducted with a group of people.
Individual interviews can be conducted in person, that is, eye to eye,
or they can be conducted by phone.
This is also a very useful method.
Group interviews are allocated to a separate category,
which are conducted with a group of people, and are called a focus group.
The problems of the quality of the collected data as a result of the interview generally require discussion.
First of all, there is a question of the reliability of the data obtained.
What is reliability?
It is that these data can be relied on, and these data can be obtained again if the interview is repeated.
Unfortunately, when we talk about collecting quality data,
very often nothing can be repeated.
Therefore, we must take care of ensuring the reliability of the data from the first time.
Since the situation in business changes very quickly,
it is necessary to recommend to the researcher to register absolutely all the collected data,
so that if there is a doubt about the reliability of these data,
it would be possible to upload a record archive and justify the conclusions made,
or, so to speak, to see where and how additional research can be carried out
to further justify the conclusions made.
The assurance of the reliability of the data is directly related to the prejudice of collecting data.
Moreover, this prejudice can be twofold.
The prejudice of the participant of the interview and the prejudice of the interviewer.
If we talk about the prejudice of the interviewer,
the researcher must be internally ready to avoid this,
and must treat exactly those whom he is asking.
As for the prejudice of the participants, it can be related to a number of reasons.
One of the reasons for the prejudice is that very often the person who is being asked
assumes what they want to hear from him,
and builds his answer in such a way as to satisfy the interviewer in the best way.
He can also think that what I am going to say now will be told to my boss,
and therefore he tries to change his answer a little, as if he said it without thinking about it.
The prejudice of the interview participant can also be related to some personal issues.
If the questions of the interviewer are related to some personal issues in his life,
the person can go into a deaf defense and not answer the question correctly.
Here good skills of the interviewer must be shown.
He must be a good psychologist, he must read the non-verbal signs well,
which the interview participant gives him,
in order to stop in time, change the topic, rephrase the question, and get away from such problems.
Another prejudice can be related to the group interviews.
The interviewer does not want to give an answer in the presence of the third person.
This problem can also be avoided if the researcher plans and forms the composition of people
who will participate in the group interview.
The next point is to provide validity and possibility of data generalization.
It is difficult to overestimate the importance of qualitative data, it is very important.
However, it is not easy to generalize qualitative data.
If the interview was not conducted at the representative election,
then the generalization may be completely unfair.
And in general, to generalize qualitative data is a rather complicated problem.
Therefore, it is necessary to conduct the interviews very carefully and select the participants for the future interview.
A very important point of the interview is to set the questions.
First of all, it is necessary to say that there are two types of questions.
These are open questions and closed questions.
Open questions are good because they allow the interview participant to describe the situation in his own words,
using his vocabulary, using his thoughts, feelings, and so on.
Open questions usually start with the words how and why.
How do you see the future of our company?
Why do you think we need to develop a branch network? And so on.
Closed questions assume that the information should be clear or that a certain fact is confirmed.
Usually, questions are asked in such a way that the person either gives an assessment of the event or simply says yes or no.
Is it true that the new warehouse of ready-made products was opened in March? Yes or no.
And there is nothing else here.
Closed questions, by the way, can be used if a large number of interviews have been conducted,
subject to some statistical processing and get some quantitative characteristic of the studied phenomenon or event.
Since the interview is conducted for a long time, and we are talking about the reliability of qualitative studies,
a separate emphasis should be placed on the registration of data.
And there are three possible situations.
The first one is that the researcher is recording during the interview.
Is it good or bad? It depends on the situation.
If the situation allows, it is better to record directly during the interview.
To facilitate the task, you can prepare a tablet, divided into two, with a piece of paper.
Each of you can have your own method, divided into two graphs.
It is impossible to record and interview simultaneously.
You can make short notes in the graph, what the person said and what you thought about it.
And then you can sit down and think it over.
When you have a canvas, it is quite easy to restructure it.
If there is no such possibility, the researcher should understand by the reaction of the person he is asking.
If he sees that the person does not like that something is being recorded,
it is better to avoid this situation, to put it on your memory,
and to sit down and record the whole interview in detail right after the person has left.
Of course, this is not the best option.
There can be some overlays.
The next way to register data is to make a wall.
When a specially trained person records in detail what the researcher said,
what the researcher asked, and what the interview participant said.
Recently, this method is used very rarely,
because our technical development has reached such heights that we can afford to use a dictaphone.
A dictaphone is a very good and convenient thing.
It allows you to record all questions and answers.
But using a dictaphone does not exclude recording.
Because you cannot see any non-verbal signs on the dictaphone.
And they can be extremely important when analyzing the received information.
In your workbook, you have a table that illustrates in great detail the advantages and disadvantages of a dictaphone.
I will not go into details, but I will definitely mention one thing.
There is an ethical side to using a dictaphone.
What a researcher should do, from the ethical point of view,
is to ask for the permission of the interview participant to use a dictaphone.
If the interview participant does not agree with the use of a dictaphone,
the researcher should be ready to record the information in any other way.
But using a dictaphone is not a panacea.
Because decoding a recording from a dictaphone is also a very difficult task.
Telephone interviews.
In what cases can telephone interviews be used?
As a rule, the advantage of a telephone interview is that it is very accessible to a remote participant.
Let's say you want to interview or ask questions, working in a head office,
to managers of all regional subsidiaries of yours,
which are located in different parts of the world.
It is expensive and long to go there.
It is much easier to call and ask this question or a number of questions on the phone.
It is cheap and fast.
Relatively cheap, compared to the cost of a plane ticket.
But telephone interviews have a number of limitations.
The first of the limitations is that it is impossible to control the information received by the interviewee.
This is very important.
Because it can lead to a misunderstanding of the situation, to misplacing the emphasis, and so on.
Of course, you can guess by the voice about some things.
For example, the degree of irritation of a person, the degree of his kindness.
Not for nothing, there is such a phrase in English literature as a smiling voice.
That is, on the phone, by the sound of a voice, it is clear whether a person is smiling or sitting with a grimace.
But, nevertheless, this is a very strong limitation.
In addition, telephone interviews are extremely not recommended to be conducted with people
with whom you have not had personal contact before.
Because it can distort the information you receive.
Only after meeting a person in person, it is desirable to agree with this person
that if I have additional questions, I can call you on the phone.
This will be ethical and correct in terms of receiving reliable information.
If necessary, you can call on the phone, but it is better to make this phone call with some permission, and so on.
And we have to discuss the focus group.
As already mentioned, the focus group is a group interview, that is, with several participants.
In this case, the researcher performs the role of a moderator, that is, the organizer of a group discussion.
Usually, such an interview is not structured, and the direction of the discussion is not controlled.
Only certain aspects of the topic to be discussed are highlighted.
This is a high-quality method of gathering information.
It allows to reveal different opinions, different understanding of the same problem to different people,
to understand how different phenomena are perceived by certain groups of people,
and its task is to determine the real attitude and view of people on a particular issue.
But a group interview can be structured, partially structured,
when the moderator has a certain set of questions,
and those that must be discussed in this group.
What is important and necessary to know about the focus group?
First of all, you need to pay attention to the selection of people to participate in the focus group.
This is very important.
It is important to have a personal psychological compatibility between people who will participate.
It is undesirable to invite the leaders and subordinates to one focus group,
because the latter can express their attitude to the discussed problem in a slightly different way in the presence of the leadership, and so on.
It is very important to pay attention to the place of the focus group.
Focus groups are usually not big.
The practice shows that 7-10 people are optimal.
Why so many?
Because if the number of people becomes larger,
then, first of all, the researcher, the moderator, cannot monitor the entire audience.
Some people just sit passively and do not participate in the discussion.
If there are fewer participants, then the focus group is actually transformed into a personal interview.
The main advantage of the focus group is to hear different points of view on the discussed problem,
to understand different attitudes of people to the same discussed problem, and so on.
If we talk about the place of the focus group,
it is better to do it on the neutral territory.
Neutral in quotation marks.
It means not in the office of the leader, where the subordinates may feel constrained.
In principle, the ideal option is to have a separate room.
For example, in the company, it can be a room for negotiations,
which is neutral for all participants,
for the leader, if he is going to be invited, and for all other employees.
It is desirable that this room has the possibility to record audio and video.
And we move on to the aspect of data registration in the focus group process.
The possible forms of recording.
There are three options.
If there are no technical means of recording, then there are only two options.
Ideally, two people should conduct the focus group.
One performs the role of a moderator, the other leads the recording in parallel.
Since it is almost impossible to talk to an audience of 7-10 people and still have time to record something.
If there is no second person, then, as in the case of an individual interview,
the moderator must make all the recordings immediately after the end of the group interview.
And the ideal option is to record everything that is happening using audio or video technology.
What can be noted here?
First, it is necessary to ask from the point of view of ethics,
do people have permission to conduct audio or video technology.
This has already become a standard procedure.
You can't get away from this.
And here, by the way, the issue of reliability of data collection is reflected.
If we force people to conduct the focus group,
and also remove them, we will get answers that will take us very far from the real situation.
And then we will not get reliable data.
But here is the same problem that we discussed about the dictaphone.
Deciphering these recordings is also a difficult task.
It is time-consuming, and so on.
I will emphasize once again that there are no perfect methods, but reliability must be ensured.
Therefore, when conducting qualitative studies,
a method is now adopted called triangulation.
In translation from Latin, it is a triangle.
That is, using the advantages of one method,
by combining methods, we can level the shortcomings of another
and ensure the reliability of our results.
Triangulation is a method of checking and improving the reliability and interpretation of data in a qualitative study.
This method of checking comes to us from technical science, namely from geodesy.
There is a method of triangles that allows us to accurately determine the coordinates of a point on the terrain.
And we need to ensure absolute and accurate fixation of our data.
There are four types of triangulation.
Three of them absolutely must be used in a qualitative study.
We list them as data triangulation, researchers' triangulation, methodological triangulation, and theory triangulation.
If we talk about theory triangulation,
then using the triangulation method itself is the best example of how this method works.
As I said, it came from geodesy business research.
The same way, theory triangulation is the use of marketing theory, let's say, management of people,
and use it for research in the field of finance, for example.
That is, it is the use of theory from interrelated sciences in your research.
Data triangulation is very simple.
This is what we have just talked about.
Data must be obtained in several ways that complement each other and ensure the reliability of the result.
Data triangulation means that we must use data for confirmation of a research hypothesis or answer to a research question,
both quantitative and qualitative research.
Research triangulation is somewhat different and not always possible.
Research triangulation is possible when there is a group of researchers.
Regardless of each other, they receive certain data, as we said a little earlier in the example,
and then sit down together and compare the data obtained, making certain adjustments or conducting additional research.
But if there is only one researcher, then it is impossible to triangulate researchers.
Therefore, methodological triangulation is very important for him,
that is, the use of different methods to obtain qualitative data.
If a researcher has managed to conduct this triangulation principle in his research,
then it increases the validity of his research and, I think, practical significance.
The collected data must be processed and analyzed.
It is important to note that the question of analyzing qualitative data should be raised at the time of making a plan for future research.
That is, while planning the methods you will use to collect data,
you need to think about how you will analyze them later during the research.
If it is assumed that you will get information that is very diverse, difficult to classify,
then you need to think in advance about several other sources of information, methods of collecting this information, and so on.
We have already discussed that the analysis of qualitative data can and should be carried out at the stage of collecting information,
because it can contribute to the emergence of new ideas, to the change of the direction of research, and maybe even to the return to the original position.
The next feature of the analysis of qualitative data is that standardized schemes cannot be used for their analysis.
This is always a creative, flexible approach to analysis, although there are certain methods of analyzing qualitative data.
These methods can be divided into several stages or include the following operations.
First of all, this is the division of all data into separate categories and groups according to a certain characteristic, a separate characteristic.
But in this case, the researcher's skill and ability to identify a characteristic characteristic should also be shown,
according to which the data will be grouped into separate categories.
This method exists in different categories.
In principle, you can assign a certain code to each category and even do some kind of machine processing.
The data processed in this way can be combined into the so-called information unit,
again, in the same way as in another discipline of logistics, which has the concept of a cargo unit,
that is, the combination of homogeneous items into one unit of accounting.
I think you all bought some products with a small option and saw how 6 bottles of Coca-Cola were soldered into the film.
This will be the cargo unit.
And for us, you and I, in research, in business, we will have to form such an information unit,
consisting of data that contains approximately homogeneous information.
After we have divided our data into categories, the next step must be carried out,
that is, to identify the interconnection between certain categories.
Because in a separate form, they will not benefit us in any way.
And only by identifying the interconnection between them, we can develop a system of categories
and implement what we talked about in the synthesis.
Next, we need to check the hypotheses in order to come to conclusions.
I will emphasize the word conclusions right away.
The conclusions must be based strictly on the information, on the data that you received and described in your report.
Very often, the conclusion is not based on the described, analyzed material,
one of the most standard mistakes, but on the fact that the researcher has, let's say, three, write, two in mind.
He builds one of the conclusions on the research problem based on these two in mind.
This should not be done.
How can we group the data we receive?
Most often, we do it by the moments listed below, by events, by people, let's say, by gender, by age, by products, materials.
Let's say, we will talk about the Chepchiks, about the space vehicles, and so on.
About resources, costs, and income.
So, grouping is not an exhaustive list.
It can be supplemented depending on what has been studied.
And just like in the end of the first topic, in the end of the second topic, you will find questions and tasks for self-checking.
Once again, scroll through your workbook and try to work through this task.
And after that, we will move on to the last topic, the third topic, ethics in management research.
Ethics in management research
How important are ethics in management research?
When we talk about ethics, we think about medicine, but ethics in management research is becoming more and more important.
And although there is no such rule as what it means to conduct ethical management research or business research,
nevertheless, there is a reason to discuss these issues.
What is ethics?
These are questions about the development of moral norms, which can help to assess the situation.
These are the moral values that a person has or does not have, which can be violated, and so on.
As a rule, ethics norms precede the norms of the law.
Each of us, one way or another, assesses whether we have acted ethically in relation to the law or not.
When a researcher plans his research, he must ask himself the same question.
How ethical will it be to ask a researcher a question?
How ethical will it be to involve him in this research? And so on.
Ethics norms are aimed at warning of the problems that may arise.
But the laws are written as a rule.
When there is a precedent, it was violated and the law was passed.
That is, after a certain event has occurred.
The parable of the Voivodess has probably already become a case.
It may not be related to ethics, but it illustrates very well how something is written after the fact.
After an American grandmother washed her dog in a washing machine, and another one dried her dog in a microwave,
we can now read the instructions on how to use the equipment that are not familiar to us.
Recently, when I bought a frying pan, I read that it is not recommended to put a handle on the front of the stove,
so that the child running past does not push it on himself.
It would seem that's all.
But back to the questions of ethics.
What are the ethical limits?
At the moment, two ethical aspects are being considered.
This is deontology, or otherwise the principle of rights and the principle of justice, and teleology.
What is deontology?
It is based on two criteria of the assessment of activity.
The first is universality and the second is appeal.
What does universality mean?
It means that everyone should be treated equally, without infringing on someone's rights or giving someone their incentives.
The principle of appeal says that people should be treated the way you would like them to be treated.
Then it is believed that moral norms will be observed from the point of view of deontology.
This is from the point of view of the principle of rights.
But from the point of view of the principle of justice, three categories are distinguished.
Distributive, punishing and compensating.
What is distributive?
It means that everyone should be treated equally.
Distributive means that everyone should be treated equally.
Punishing means that if a person acted unethically, violated someone's rights, he should be punished accordingly.
The compensating category says that if the principle of justice in relation to the participant in this case of the study was violated,
then a person has the right to be compensated.
If the participant in the study's rights were violated, for example, his right to be heard, his right to receive additional information,
then the researcher must somehow compensate for the damage done.
Deontology is the principle of the benefit of the person.
It is the theory of benefit for the person.
It is important to understand that morally, ethically, deontology is something that does not cause damage to a person.
Let's take an example.
A country is fighting for democracy in another small country.
From the point of view of the principle of common good, it seems that they are doing well.
But if we think about those hundreds and thousands of people with a damaged fate or who no longer exist in this world,
then from the point of view of deontology, these actions are immoral.
If we return to the business of research, what principle should we profess?
Deontology or teleology?
We have not yet talked about teleology, but let's answer the question for ourselves.
Should we apply the principle of deontology in governance studies or not?
We should take care of the moral behavior of the researcher towards each participant,
regardless of the benefits that may be obtained as a result of infringement of the rights of these participants.
Unfortunately, the answer to this question can be twofold.
From the point of view of high theory and high ethics, governance studies should be conducted in such a way
that no participant is harmed.
But unfortunately, this principle is often ignored in real business situations.
In the best case, we are talking about the compensating category of the deontological principle of ethics.
If a participant says that his rights were violated, then he is compensated.
What is teleology?
In this area, we often talk about utilitarianism.
This is the principle of the common good.
The formula is as follows.
If the total effect of the action, for example, the study, is positive,
then the action is considered moral.
But the fact that certain individuals suffered, that they were harmed, is not taken into account.
This is the principle of the common good.
If we return to the example of small and large countries, then the principle of utilitarianism is also mentioned here.
Your notebook contains two examples with explanations of the actions of the sheriff and the actions of the president of the company,
which clearly illustrate the above two principles.
Which of them will you be guided by in your studies?
This is your right, your moral values, but in the modern world it is still desirable to profess the principles of deontology.
Other problems in terms of ethics may arise in interpersonal relations and in the relationship between the researcher and the participants in the study,
with colleagues in conducting the study, the researcher and his leadership.
Let's start with the leader.
First of all, it should be borne in mind that if you conduct a study with permission or at the request of the leadership,
then the leader is partially responsible for the order of conducting the study, including for violating the norms of ethics and rights.
Well, if you conduct an unauthorized study, then in case of your mistake, the full responsibility will be entirely and completely on you.
Do not let your leader down.
The next aspect is the relationship between the researcher and his colleagues in conducting the study.
Here, too, the boundaries of the norms of ethics may be crossed,
first of all, in the research approaches, in the coordination of actions, in the discussion of these actions, and so on.
If a dispute begins in the research team, then it becomes very problematic to talk about the reliability of the results.
Here, another aspect may arise.
One of the participants of the team, not to confuse the terminology,
one of the team of researchers can conduct the study in some of his or her own interests,
or he or she can deliberately lead the group away from some aspects of the study.
It is very important to think about the composition of the research team when it comes to group research.
And if we talk about yourself as a member of the team,
you need to think very carefully before taking any action that may harm your colleagues in conducting the study,
either directly or indirectly, or even lead the whole study.
As for the relationship between the researcher and the participant of the study,
it is described in your notebook in sufficient detail,
what rights of the participant of the study can be violated, and what compensation measures should be followed.
The participant of the study has the unconditional right to be heard, has the right to information, and a number of other things.
Here, another question arises.
For example, the participant of the study has the right to information.
In other words, you should warn him or her that you are conducting the study, that you are watching him or her.
But we have already said that this can lead to the distortion of the collected data.
And there is no solution to this problem.
You need to focus on the situation every time.
Maybe, at some points, the principle of utilitarianism can be used.
The ethical problems are listed.
The permission to conduct the study and the agreement of the level of access to information.
At the very beginning, we talked a little bit about this, but I will allow myself to repeat it again.
The permission to conduct the study, from the point of view of ethics, should be asked for.
But on the other hand, having asked for permission to conduct the study, you can be limited in the level of access to information.
And this problem should be solved every time, in every specific case, with every specific leader and researcher.
The issue of confidentiality is very difficult.
Because a number of studies require studying of financial documents,
other documents that are not intended for the ears, eyes of a third-party observer,
then the question is very often raised whether it is possible and necessary to use such data.
The principle of solving this problem is as follows.
If it is possible to avoid using confidential information in the study, it is better to avoid it.
If this information is extremely necessary for conducting the study,
then, most likely, the report on the study will have limited access.
The same applies to dissertations.
If you use data in your dissertation that can be considered as confidential,
then it is better to make this dissertation closed.
Another way to bypass this sharp corner is not to use absolute numbers,
but to use relative numbers, percentage numbers.
We have discussed the information of participants about their goals and tasks.
We decide whether it is necessary or not.
The feeling of the participants' own dignity should never be underestimated.
We have no right to undermine the dignity of the participants of the study.
And the last one.
The publication of the data obtained during the study.
Only reliable data should be published.
This data should not distort the truth and should not be presented in such a way
as to present the researcher in the best light or to undermine the dignity of the competitor.
After discussing the questions of ethics, we have come to the conclusion of today's video course.
We have discussed the main principles of conducting a managerial study.
We have discussed or I have tried to tell you about the main methods,
scientific approaches to conducting a study,
paying special attention to the purpose, role and essence of qualitative studies in business
and what we have just discussed about the questions of ethics.
Of course, this course is very short,
like any other course of study,
which cannot contain all the variety of information,
cannot describe all the situations,
cannot give all the examples and give an instruction on all the cases of your difficult life in business.
Therefore, I can make a recommendation.
Pay attention to the list of literature given at the end of the workbook.
And special attention.
If you need to conduct a business or a managerial study,
refer to the fundamental work of Mark Saunders and the authors of the method of economic study.
This is practically the only source in Russian today,
which has absorbed information on the issues discussed today.
I will only make a remark.
Pay attention, sometimes there are inaccuracies in the translation.
The original book is called
Research methods for the business students.
That is, the methods of study for the students of the MBA program,
for business students, if translated literally.
Let the word economic studies not confuse you.
In Russian, this is exactly what you need.
These are management studies, business studies.
And a very large number of other information, which is not listed in this list.
If you use the Internet as a source, be careful.
A lot of incorrect, and sometimes confusing information is contained in the Internet.
Use the triangulation method to select high-quality and reliable secondary information for your own research.
And the last one.
Only self-education, only a desire for new knowledge, only a desire to gain experience, to learn something, can help you, my dear listeners and viewers, to achieve success in business faster.
Thank you for your attention and good luck.